README.adoc, before:

= Fulcro Rapid Application Development Tools

A library using Fulcro and Pathom to create full-stack single-page web, mobile, and
desktop applications with a rich (and potentially federated) data model quickly.

== Usage

image:https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/com.fulcrologic/fulcro-rad.svg[link=https://clojars.org/com.fulcrologic/fulcro-rad]
image:https://circleci.com/gh/fulcrologic/fulcro-rad/tree/master.svg?style=svg["CircleCI", link="https://circleci.com/gh/fulcrologic/fulcro-rad/tree/master"]

NOTE: The latest version requires at least Fulcro 3.5.1.

Documentation is currently available in the docstrings of the namespaces (most up-to-date), and you can refer to the
https://github.com/fulcrologic/fulcro-rad-demo[Fulcro RAD Demo] project (status varies, but is an accurate representation
of what is working).

There is a start on a book at http://book.fulcrologic.com/RAD.html.
At the moment your best bet for knowing exactly what works is to look at the
https://github.com/fulcrologic/fulcro-rad-demo[RAD Demo project].

== Support

Unpaid questions, issue reports, or requests should go through the #fulcro channel of http://clojurians.net/[Clojurians Slack].

Paid support for RAD and related libraries is available from http://www.fulcrologic.com[Fulcrologic, LLC].

== Project Goals

The RAD project has ambitious goals, but only one primary contributor who is very busy.

The general goals of this project are:

. Establish extensible patterns with pre-written components where almost any aspect of RAD can be tuned to fit your
needs, and can also be escaped from entirely with minimal impact to your project when the pre-written
components prove insufficient to your needs. RAD is built to be easy to grow, and easy to leave if you manage to outgrow it.
** The only aspect of RAD that is "core" is the description of your data model in attributes. Those are
nothing more than fully-open maps describing your data model, and it is difficult to imagine those causing harm since
they tie your program to nothing more than your own global description of your data.
. Provide a central data model around the concept of *attributes*. An attribute in RAD is pretty much just like
a Datomic attribute: it has a fully-qualified name (e.g. `:account/email`) that can be globally distinct in its meaning,
a type, a cardinality, and must be combined with an identity and value to fully represent a fact in the world.
** Identity itself (e.g. `:account/id`) is nothing more than an attribute that can help you find others.
** Non-identity attributes may appear under any number of identities, making for an open data model.
** Attributes can represent virtual things: edges in the graph that are not reified (require queries to calculate),
   values in reports that are aggregates, etc.
** All attributes can be given an arbitrary set of user/plugin defined information, which can be used by your code
or the code of plugins to provide features around the data model (they can even define how to obtain or calculate the data itself).
** They define the structure for fully federated data systems: that is to say your data can live in any number of places,
and can be seamlessly combined into the user-interface. Most of this is accomplished by the combined abilities of
raw Fulcro and Pathom, but attributes play a central role in describing your data model to RAD itself.
. Provide the ability to use an automated database layer that:
** is *easy to escape from*. If you outgrow it, the layer won't lock you in.
** can generate some amount of schema that is useful for at least early-stage projects.
** allows you to leverage your own schema.
** can integrate into RAD in order to *serve and save* data around common forms and reports.
. Provide a system for the rendering and interaction with forms and reports.
** A Form is any screen where a tree of data is loaded and saved "together", and where validation and free-form inputs are
common.
** A Report is any screen where the data contains a mix of read-only, derived, and aggregate data. This data may be
organized in many ways (graphically, in columns, in rows, as a kanban board). Interactions with the data commonly include
linking (navigation), filtering, pagination, and abstract actions that can affect arbitrary things (e.g. delete this item,
move that card, zoom that chart).
. Any generated rendering must be easy to escape, but when used it must also be extensible in four dimensions: data type,
  data style, visual appearance, and platform.
** Data type: If you extend the data model with a new type, you can also extend the rendering system to support it.
** Data style: A single type (e.g. decimal) may represent different visual things: USD, percentage, etc.
** Visual appearance: Beyond simple data style: a report might need to be a chart, or you may simply want to take
fine-grained control of rendering.
** Platform: Assuming you're having RAD generate UI, it should be possible to specify the platform (e.g. Mobile vs Web).
This allows RAD to stand up apps with different targets with minimal changes to your application code.

== LICENSE

The MIT License (MIT)
Copyright (c), Fulcrologic, LLC

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated
documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit
persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Updated README. NOTE on (unlikely) BREAKING CHANGE.

README.adoc, after:

= Fulcro Rapid Application Development Tools

A library using Fulcro and Pathom to create full-stack single-page web, mobile, and
desktop applications with a rich (and potentially federated) data model quickly.

== Usage

image:https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/com.fulcrologic/fulcro-rad.svg[link=https://clojars.org/com.fulcrologic/fulcro-rad]
image:https://circleci.com/gh/fulcrologic/fulcro-rad/tree/master.svg?style=svg["CircleCI", link="https://circleci.com/gh/fulcrologic/fulcro-rad/tree/master"]

WARNING: POSSIBLE BREAKING CHANGE. The most recent version requires that you upgrade js-joda in package.json. RAD no
longer requires js-joda locales, which will reduce the build size if you don't need date parsing, but the date-time namespace
is no longer capable of doing custom date format *parsing* (though it can still *format* an inst with arbitrary localized
date formats).  If you were using `tformat` to generate a java-time DateTimeFormatter, you must switch to using
cljc.java-time directly (a very easy change), and make sure you include the locale that you need for proper parsing.

NOTE: The latest version requires at least Fulcro 3.5.1.

NOTE: Version 1.1 is in progress as of Oct. 2021, with formal releases coming by the end of the year. It will contain a number
of improvements and bugfixes. You can try the latest version in a `deps.edn` project by using the most recent git SHA
on the `develop` branch.

Documentation is currently available in the docstrings of the namespaces (most up-to-date), and you can refer to the
https://github.com/fulcrologic/fulcro-rad-demo[Fulcro RAD Demo] project (status varies, but is an accurate representation
of what is working).

There is a start on a book at http://book.fulcrologic.com/RAD.html.
At the moment your best bet for knowing exactly what works is to look at the
https://github.com/fulcrologic/fulcro-rad-demo[RAD Demo project].

== Support

Unpaid questions, issue reports, or requests should go through the #fulcro channel of http://clojurians.net/[Clojurians Slack].

Paid support for RAD and related libraries is available from http://www.fulcrologic.com[Fulcrologic, LLC].

== Project Goals

The RAD project has ambitious goals, but only one primary contributor who is very busy.

The general goals of this project are:

. Establish extensible patterns with pre-written components where almost any aspect of RAD can be tuned to fit your
needs, and can also be escaped from entirely with minimal impact to your project when the pre-written
components prove insufficient to your needs. RAD is built to be easy to grow, and easy to leave if you manage to outgrow it.
** The only aspect of RAD that is "core" is the description of your data model in attributes. Those are
nothing more than fully-open maps describing your data model, and it is difficult to imagine those causing harm since
they tie your program to nothing more than your own global description of your data.
. Provide a central data model around the concept of *attributes*. An attribute in RAD is pretty much just like
a Datomic attribute: it has a fully-qualified name (e.g. `:account/email`) that can be globally distinct in its meaning,
a type, a cardinality, and must be combined with an identity and value to fully represent a fact in the world.
** Identity itself (e.g. `:account/id`) is nothing more than an attribute that can help you find others.
** Non-identity attributes may appear under any number of identities, making for an open data model.
** Attributes can represent virtual things: edges in the graph that are not reified (require queries to calculate),
   values in reports that are aggregates, etc.
** All attributes can be given an arbitrary set of user/plugin defined information, which can be used by your code
or the code of plugins to provide features around the data model (they can even define how to obtain or calculate the data itself).
** They define the structure for fully federated data systems: that is to say your data can live in any number of places,
and can be seamlessly combined into the user-interface. Most of this is accomplished by the combined abilities of
raw Fulcro and Pathom, but attributes play a central role in describing your data model to RAD itself.
. Provide the ability to use an automated database layer that:
** is *easy to escape from*. If you outgrow it, the layer won't lock you in.
** can generate some amount of schema that is useful for at least early-stage projects.
** allows you to leverage your own schema.
** can integrate into RAD in order to *serve and save* data around common forms and reports.
. Provide a system for the rendering and interaction with forms and reports.
** A Form is any screen where a tree of data is loaded and saved "together", and where validation and free-form inputs are
common.
** A Report is any screen where the data contains a mix of read-only, derived, and aggregate data. This data may be
organized in many ways (graphically, in columns, in rows, as a kanban board). Interactions with the data commonly include
linking (navigation), filtering, pagination, and abstract actions that can affect arbitrary things (e.g. delete this item,
move that card, zoom that chart).
. Any generated rendering must be easy to escape, but when used it must also be extensible in four dimensions: data type,
  data style, visual appearance, and platform.
** Data type: If you extend the data model with a new type, you can also extend the rendering system to support it.
** Data style: A single type (e.g. decimal) may represent different visual things: USD, percentage, etc.
** Visual appearance: Beyond simple data style: a report might need to be a chart, or you may simply want to take
fine-grained control of rendering.
** Platform: Assuming you're having RAD generate UI, it should be possible to specify the platform (e.g. Mobile vs Web).
This allows RAD to stand up apps with different targets with minimal changes to your application code.

== LICENSE

The MIT License (MIT)
Copyright (c), Fulcrologic, LLC

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated
documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit
persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
